
Which machines to use?

Good question. Use apache in the meanwhile. I have emailed the CS tech staff asking for the names of other machines to use.

How to reach a machine?

Note that the telnet application is no longer supported on campus (due to lack of security). If you are on a unix machine outside of campus you can use 

   ssh apache.utdallas.edu

If you are using a windows machine, there is a publicly available windows version of ssh, it is called putty. Search for it on the web, it is easy to find and download.

Basic UNIX commands

When writing your program, a text editor is needed. Those of you who know 
how to use vi or emacs can skip this section. Pico is the ideal basic text 
editor for UTD UNIX machines. To use the editor after logging on the UTD 
UNIX machines, simply type in 
    pico "filename"
where "filename" is the name of the file you want to edit. Needless
to say, you don't type the " ", those are just to distinguish the 
names of your files from command names.

The editor is a basic one. In order to quit the editor, simply key in 
Ctrl-X. For Copying text, key in Ctrl U ( you can do this over many lines), 
and pasting is Ctrl K. Reading a certain file is Ctrl-R. The instructions 
are in fact laid out at the bottom of the editor window.

To compile C++ programs, simply type in c++ "filename" or g++ "filename"
or CC "filename" (we have 3 compilers, pick the one you like). 
The executable file ( if the compilation was successful) will be produced in 
a.out. In order to execute the file, simply type in "a.out".

To compile C programs, type cc "filename". The executable will also
be in a.out

To RENAME your file, a.out, to, say, "host", simply type

mv a.out host

and your executable will now be called host. (renaming works on any file not just executables)

Often, you may want help on a particular command. If so, just type in man 
"command" from the command prompt where "command" is the command you want 
help on. If you want help on read, write commands the command is man -s 2 
(read, write, open). Don't write in the parentheses, just choose one of the 
words from the parentheses and type it in.

The more command outputs a file to the screen, one page at a time,
and waits for a space bar before outputting the next page to the screen.
   more "filename"

If you want to direct the compilation 
report of your program to a file, you can do so by 
  c++ "program file" &> "outfile"
where "program file" is the name of the file you are tyring to 
compile and "outfile" is the file you want the output of the compilation to 
be redirected to.  

The command sleep (sec) will cause the system ( or thread) to sleep ( do 
nothing) for the specified number of seconds. 
Thus, sleep(5) will put your program to sleep for 5 seconds.

To remove (permanently!) a file you don't need type

   rm "filename"

Before you log out, you should always check that you did not leave any 
unwanted processes running. To find out which processes you have running, type 

   ps -ef | grep "userid"

where "userid" is your Unix login id. (mine is jcobb). That will give you a 
list of processes with the process identifier (the process id is the large 
number after your user id in the listing) To kill a process type the following

   kill -9 "processid"

PLEASE MAKE SURE YOU DO NOT LEAVE PROCESSES RUNNING FOREVERY IN THE BACKGROUND

The sysadmins will be very upset at us if we do